>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 15:
DANISH POLICE KILL THE TERRORIST
WHO WENT ON A RAMPAGE IN
COPENHAGEN.
WE'LL HAVE A REPORT FROM THE
SCENE.
THE WHITE HOUSE INTERVENES TO
LIMIT THE ECONOMIC DAMAGE FROM A
LABOR DISPUTE AT PORTS UP AND
DOWN THE WEST COAST.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
FROM HAWAII, THE FIGHT OVER THE
TROPICAL FISH THAT END UP IN
AQUARIUMS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> I WANT IT ALL GONE, NOT JUST
HAWAII.
>> WHY IS THE AQUARIUM FISHERY
SO EGREGIOUS?
>> Stewart: NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'M ALISON STEWART.
HARI SREENIVASAN WILL BE BACK
NEXT WEEKEND.
NEWS OUTLETS IN DENMARK SAY A
22-YEAR-OLD MAN, OMAR EL-
HUSSEIN, WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
TERROR ATTACKS IN COPENHAGEN
YESTERDAY THAT LEFT TWO DEAD AND
SEVERAL OTHERS WOUNDED.
THE MAN, WHO WAS BORN IN
DENMARK, REPORTEDLY HAS A LONG
HISTORY OF VIOLENCE AND WAS
RECENTLY RELEASED FROM JAIL.
AUTHORITIES SAY HE FIRST FIRED
INTO A CAFE WHERE A FREE SPEECH
FORUM WAS BEING HELD, THEN
KILLED A MAN OUTSIDE A SYNAGOGUE
BEFORE HE WAS KILLED HOURS
LATER.
JANE DEITH OF ITV NEWS HAS OUR
STORY.
>> Reporter: HE'S DEAD, SHOT BY
POLICE.
THIS WAS WHERE IT ENDED, HIS
BODY LYING ON THE PAVEMENT BY
THE DOORWAY.
FORENSIC OFFICERS GATHER
EVIDENCE, ARMED POLICE KEEP
WATCH.
A TAXI DRIVER HELPED POLICE FIND
WHERE HE LIVED.
TODAY THE DANISH SECURITY
SERVICES HAVE CONFIRMED HE WAS
KNOWN TO THEM.
>> WE DO NOT HAVE SPECIFIC
KNOWLEDGE OF TRAVELER TO SYRIA
OR IRAQ.
>> HE SEEMS TO HAVE COPIED
THE ATTACKS IN FRANCE, FIRST
TRYING TO SHOOT HIS WAY INTO
A DEBATE ON FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION AT A COPENHAGEN
CAFE.
THEN ATTACKING THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY.
THIS IS MOMENTS AFTER THE
CAFE ATTACK.
A MAN LIES INJURED IN THE
ROAD, ANOTHER REMOVES HIS
TOP TO TREAT HIM BEFORE HELP
ARRIVES.
>> ONE MAN WAS KILLED, FILM
DIRECTOR FINN NORGAARD.
THE FRENCH AMBASSADOR TO
DENMARK SURVIVED.
>> WE ALL THROW OURSELVES TO
THE GROUND.
IT WAS A REFLEX.
WE DIDN'T THINK.
>> IF THEY HAD BEEN ABLE TO
GET IN, IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
CARNAGE.
>> Reporter: ALSO UNHURT, BUT
PROBABLY THE MAIN TARGET, WAS
SWEDISH ARTIST LARS VILKS, UNDER
POLICE PROTECTION SINCE HE DREW
CARICATURES OF THE PROPHET
MOHAMMED.
AMONG NUMEROUS PLOTS TO KILL HIM
WAS ONE BY AN AMERICAN WOMAN WHO
CALLS HERSELF JIHAD JANE.
THERE WAS AN ATTEMPT TO BURN
DOWN HIS HOUSE AND AN ATTACK
WHILE HE WAS SPEAKING AT A
UNIVERSITY.
THE GUNMAN FLED THE CAFE, BUT
POLICE COULDN'T STOP HIM KILLING
AGAIN.
TEN HOURS LATER, HE WAS OUTSIDE
COPENHAGEN'S CENTRAL SYNAGOGUE,
WHERE HE SHOT DEAD DAN UZAN,
WHO'D VOLUNTEERED TO STAND
GUARD.
THE POLICE ENTERED THE STREET
WEARING HELMETS AND RIFLES,
WE LOOKED OUTSIDE AND SAW GUY
LYING IN STREET ON PAVEMENT.
>> Reporter: TODAY DENMARK'S
PRIME MINISTER LAY FLOWERS FOR
DAN UZAN.
>> OUR THOUGHTS GOES TO THE
WHOLE OF THE JEWISH COMMUNITY
TODAY.
THEY BELONG IN DENMARK.
THEY ARE A STRONG PART OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND WE WILL DO
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO PROTECT THE
JEWISH COMMUNITY IN OUR COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: SHE ALSO SAID,
"ALTHOUGH WE DON'T KNOW THE
MOTIVE BEHIND THE ATTACK, THERE
ARE FORCES THAT WANT TO HURT
DENMARK'S BELIEF IN RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM."
BUT, SHE SAID, "WE ARE NOT IN A
BATTLE BETWEEN ISLAM AND THE
WEST.
IT'S TIME FOR UNITY."
>> Stewart: IN NEIGHBORING
GERMANY TODAY, IN THE TOWN OF
BRAUNSCHWEIG, A PARADE THAT WAS
EXPECTED TO DRAW A QUARTER
MILLION PEOPLE WAS CANCELED ONLY
90 MINUTES BEFORE ITS START
BECAUSE OF WHAT AUTHORITIES
CALLED A "SPECIFIC THREAT OF AN
ISLAMIST ATTACK."
TYPICALLY THERE ARE PARADES AND
FESTIVALS IN CATHOLIC AREAS OF
GERMANY IN THE DAYS LEADING UP
TO LENT.
IN THE FACE OF RISING ANTI-
SEMITIC ATTACKS, ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
PROPOSED TODAY THAT TENS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS BE SET ASIDE
SO THAT MORE EUROPEAN JEWS COULD
IMMIGRATE TO ISRAEL.
>> OF COURSE, JEWS DESERVE
PROTECTION IN EVERY COUNTRY, BUT
WE SAY TO JEWS, TO OUR BROTHERS
AND SISTERS: ISRAEL IS YOUR
HOME.
WE ARE PREPARING AND CALLING FOR
THE ABSORPTION OF MASS
IMMIGRATION FROM EUROPE.
>> Stewart: UNDER ISRAEL'S LAW
OF RETURN, ANYONE WITH AT LEAST
ONE JEWISH GRANDPARENT CAN
IMMIGRATE TO ISRAEL AND BECOME
AN ISRAELI CITIZEN.
TERRORISTS HAVE STRUCK AGAIN IN
NORTHEAST NIGERIA.
A FEMALE SUICIDE BOMBER BLEW
HERSELF UP AT A CROWDED BUS
STATION.
AT LEAST SEVEN PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AND DOZENS MORE WOUNDED.
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED IN AN AREA
WHERE BOKO HARAM ISLAMISTS STAGE
FREQUENT ATTACKS.
IN EGYPT, THE DEPOSED POPULARLY
ELECTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI
AND TEN OTHERS WERE PUT ON TRIAL
TODAY.
THEY'RE CHARGED WITH LEAKING
CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS.
MORSI AND THOUSANDS OF HIS
FOLLOWERS FROM THE NOW-BANNED
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD WERE JAILED
AFTER HE WAS OVERTHROWN BY
EGYPT'S MILITARY.
MORSI COULD BE EXECUTED IF
CONVICTED.
HE CALLED THE PROCEEDINGS "A
FARCE."
THAT CEASEFIRE THAT WENT INTO
EFFECT TODAY IN EASTERN UKRAINE,
NEAR RUSSIA, IS SAID TO BE
HOLDING IN MOST AREAS.
BUT FIGHTING BETWEEN PRO-RUSSIAN
REBELS AND UKRAINIAN FORCES
CONTINUES IN A KEY RAIL HUB
CONNECTING THE TWO MAIN REBEL-
HELD CITIES.
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT TROOPS ARE
SAID TO BE ENCIRCLED THERE.
THE CEASEFIRE WAS REACHED DAYS
AGO AFTER LENGTHY NEGOTIATIONS
INVOLVING THE LEADERS OF
GERMANY, FRANCE, RUSSIA AND
UKRAINE.
TODAY, DURING A TELEVISION
INTERVIEW, WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF
STAFF DENIS MCDONOUGH COMMENTED
ON THE DEAL.
>> THE PROOF WILL BE IN THE
PUDDING.
THE RUSSIANS HAVE A LOT TO
ACCOUNT FOR HERE.
I'M NOT OPTIMISTIC OR
PESSIMISTIC.
I'M JUST REALISTIC ABOUT THIS.
>> Stewart: THE WEATHER
CONTINUES TO BE THE BIG STORY IN
THIS COUNTRY, NO MORE SO THAN IN
NEW ENGLAND, WHICH HAS
EXPERIENCED HISTORIC SNOWFALLS
THIS WINTER AND IS GETTING
POUNDED AGAIN TODAY.
THE NEWSHOUR'S IVETTE FELICIANO
HAS THE DETAILS.
>> Reporter: BY DAYBREAK SUNDAY,
HALF A FOOT OF SNOW WAS ON THE
GROUND ACROSS EASTERN
MASSACHUSETTS, AND 20 INCHES HAD
ALREADY FALLEN IN ONE COASTAL
TOWN.
THE CONDITIONS WERE FURTHER
COMPLICATED BY STRONG WINDS THAT
STARTED LAST NIGHT AND CONTINUED
INTO TODAY.
THIS LOCAL ABC REPORTER IN
BOSTON WAS BARELY ABLE TO STAND.
IT IS NOW OFFICIALLY THE
SNOWIEST FEBRUARY IN THE HISTORY
OF THE CITY.
AS OF THIS MORNING, 52.5 INCHES
HAVE FALLEN THIS MONTH, AND
NEARLY SEVEN FEET OF SNOW HAVE
FALLEN THERE THIS WINTER.
>> WHAT CAN YOU DO?
IT'S MOTHER NATURE.
>> Reporter: MORE THAN 1,800
AIRLINE FLIGHTS HAVE BEEN
CANCELED ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES TODAY, MANY OUT OF
BOSTON'S LOGAN INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT.
THE CITY ALSO HAS HALTED RAIL,
BUS AND FERRY SERVICE.
MAKING THINGS EVEN MORE
DIFFICULT, WALLS OF SNOW-- SIX
FEET OR HIGHER-- LEFTOVER FROM
EARLIER STORMS.
DRIFTING CAUSING MAJOR
VISIBILITY PROBLEMS.
>> WE STILL HAVE WIND GUSTS
IN THE 40 AND 50 MILE AN
HOUR RANGE, THIS VERY LIGHT
SNOW WILL CONTINUE TO BLOW
AROUND A LOT AND AS A RESULT
ROADS THAT MAY HAVE BEEN
PLOWED RECENTLY WILL START
TO LOOK PRETTY QUICKLY LIKE
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN PLOWED.
>> AND
>> Reporter: AND BOSTON IS
HARDLY THE ONLY PLACE DEALING
WITH EXTREME WEATHER.
BLIZZARD WARNINGS ARE IN EFFECT
FOR COASTAL AREAS ALONG THE EAST
COAST FROM CONNECTICUT TO MAINE
THROUGH MONDAY.
BONE CHILLING TEMPS ARE ALSO
EXPECTED UP AND DOWN THE EAST
COAST TONIGHT, WITH LOWS OF
MINUS-10 DEGREES IN SOME AREAS.
>> THE HIGHEST TEMPERATURE I
CAN SEE IS 26 DEGREES.
THAT IS DISAPPOINTING.
>> THOUSANDS IN THE EAST
HAVE ALREADY LOST POWER
BECAUSE OF HIGH WINDS.
MUCH OF THE MIDWEST ALSO
SUFFERED THROUGH EXTREME COLD
LAST NIGHT AND THIS MORNING.
>> Stewart: HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER SAID TODAY HE'S PREPARED
TO LET FUNDING FOR THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
LAPSE IF THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T
ROLL BACK EXECUTIVE ACTIONS ON
IMMIGRATION.
THOSE EXECUTIVE ACTIONS SHIELD
UP TO FIVE MILLION UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS FROM POSSIBLE
DEPORTATION.
>> CERTAINLY.
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE DID NOT
HAVE A AUTHORITY TO DO WHAT HE
DID.
>> WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF
STAFF McDONOUGH SAID HE DOES
NOT KNOW HOW CONGRESS WILL
REVOLVE THE DISPUTE.
>> Stewart: WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF
STAFF DENIS MCDONOUGH SAID TODAY
HE DOES NOT KNOW HOW CONGRESS
WILL RESOLVE THE DISPUTE.
THE FUNDING DEADLINE FOR THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
IS FEBRUARY 27.
AND THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION TODAY RELEASED
PROPOSED RULES THAT COULD OPEN
UP THE SKIES TO COMMERCIAL DRONE
USE.
THE LONG-AWAITED RULES WOULD
REQUIRE PILOTS TO BE CERTIFIED,
KEEP DRONES WITHIN SIGHT,
OPERATE ONLY IN DAYLIGHT, AND
FLY UNDER 500 FEET.
IT'S EXPECTED TO TAKE ANOTHER
FEW YEARS BEFORE THE RULES ARE
FINALIZED.
234 CANADA 3000 MEMBERS OF
THE TEAMSTERS WENT ON A
STRIKE IN A DISPUTE OVER THE
RAILWAY OVER BENEFITS.
ANALYSTS SAY A PROLONGED
STRIKE WILL DISRUPT THE FLOW
OF THINGS INTO THE UNITED
STATES.
ANOTHER DISPUTE BETWEEN SHIP
OWNER-- SHIP OWNERS AND LONG
SHOREMAN IS IN THIS COUNTRY.
-- THOMAS PEREZ TO
CALIFORNIA TO TRY TO RESOLVE
IT.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS WE ARE
JOINED FROM LOS ANGELES BY
CHRISTOPHER THORNBERG, HE IS
AN ECONOMIST AND A FOUNDING
PARTNER OF BEACON ECONOMICS.
SO CHRISTOPHER, TELL ME,
WHAT IS AT THE CENTRE OF
THIS DISPUTE AND WHY HAS IT
GONE ON FOR SOMETHING LIKE
NINE MONTHS.
>> WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT,
YOU KNOW, THERE IS A LONG
HISTORY OF TENSION BETWEEN
THE LONG SHOREMEN AND THE
VARIOUS OWNERS OF THE
SHIPPING COMPANIES THAT MOVE
PRODUCTS IN AND OUT OF THOSE
PORTS.
THIS TIME AROUND, THE
CONTRACT WAS UP FOR RENEWAL.
THOSE NEGOTIATIONS HAVE BEEN
CARRYING ON.
I KNOW THE WORKERS AT THE
PORT HAVE BEEN WORKING UNDER
THE OLD EXPIRED CONTRACT FOR
A NUMBER OF MONTHS.
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS
HAVEN'T BEEN GOING VERY
FAST.
AND AS A RESULT OF THAT,
THERE HAS BEEN KIND OF THIS,
IF YOU WILL, GUERRILLA
ACTION GOING ON BETWEEN BOTH
PARTIES, SOMEWHAT OF A WORK
SLOWDOWN BY ONE SIDE OF THE
EQUATION AND OF COURSE THESE
KIND OF WEEKEND LONG
LONGOUTS ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF IT.
AND OVERALL THE TENSIONS ARE
GETTING HOTTER AND HOTTER.
>> Stewart: WHAT IS THE
FIGHT ABOUT?
>> JUST THE SAME OLD, RIGHT.
WAGES AND BENEFITS.
THE PORT WORKERS ARE LOOKING
TO REALLY INCREASE SOME OF
THE BENEFITS THEY'RE GETTING
RIGHT NOW.
AND AT THE SAME TIME WE FOE
THAT TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
CONTINUES TO ALTER
OPERATIONS AT THE PORT AND
THEY'RE FIGHTING VERY HARD
TO TRY AND MAINTAIN THE
OVERALL LEVEL OF THE
EMPLOYMENT AT THOSE PORTS.
>> Stewart: THUS FAR W WHO
HAS BEEN MOST AFFECTED BY
THIS SLOWDOWN BUSINESS
FUTURE-- DISPUTE AND IF IT
GOES ON WHO WILL BE MOST
AFFECTED.
>> WHEN YOU SIT DOWN AND
LOOK AT WHAT HAS BEEN
HAPPENING AT THE PORTS IN
TERMS OF CONTAINERS MOVING
IN AND OUT, WHILE THERE ARE
THESE DELAY, THE OVERALL
VOLUME HASN'T DROPPED BY
VERY MUCH AT ALL, TO BE
PERFECTLY HONEST BY THE
NUMBERS WE HAVE BEEN SEEING.
>> Stewart: WHAT ABOUT
FARMERS IN THE MIDWEST OR
TRUCKERS?
WOULDN'T THIS AFFECT THEIR
LIVELIHOOD?
>> AT SOME LEVEL.
BUT REMEMBER A LOT OF
FARMERS HAVE ALTERNATIVE
WAYS OF GETTING THEIR CROPS,
WE SAY OUT AND ABOUT.
>> Stewart: RIGHT NOW THERE
ARE 29 PORTS AFFECTED FROM
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA CALL UP TO
WASHINGTON STATE.
AND THE BACKLOG HAS BEEN ITS
WORST IN THE PAST WEEK SINCE
THIS WHOLE THING STARTED.
SO WHAT DOES THAT MEAN FOR
AN AVERAGE CONSUMER?
>> NOT MUCH AT THIS
PARTICULAR POINT IN TIME.
YOU KNOW, I REALIZE THAT
IT'S EASY TO MAKE BIG NEWS
ABOUT THESE PORTS.
YOU HEAR ALL THE RHETORIC
ABOUT THESE BEING AN
IMPORTANT, ALMOST, IF YOU
WILL, AN ARTERY OF THE U.S.
ECONOMY AND IF IT GETS CUT
OFF WE ALMOST THINK ABOUT
THE BODY ECONOMY BLEEDING
OUT AS THE CASE MAY BE.
BUT THOSE KIND OF VIEWS ARE
HIGHLY OVERSTATED.
GO TO YOUR LOCAL SUPERMARKET,
GO TO YOUR LOCAL DEPARTMENT
STORE, THE SHELVES ARE
STUFFED WITH PRODUCTS AND
GOODS.
NOBODY IN THE UNITED STATES
IS BEING DENIED ANY KIND OF
CONSUMPTION CHOICE AS A
RESULT OF THESE DISRUPTIONS.
AND CANDIDLY IT WOULD TAKE A
VERY LONG TIME FOR THAT TO
HAPPEN.
THE PORTS ARE A CHEAP AND
CONVENIENT WAY OF MOVING
PRODUCT IN AND OUT OF THE
UNITED STATES BUT THEY ARE
NOT THE ONLY WAY.
YOU CAN WHEEL STUFF THROUGH
CANADA OR MENTION QUO.
YOU COULD SHIP IT TO THE
EAST COAST, PUT IT ON A
PLANE THERE ARE PLENTY OF
WAYS OF MOVING PRODUCT IN
AND OUT.
THIS MAY BE A HASSLE AND
INDEED EVEN A FINANCIAL HIT
FOR SOME COMPANIES.
BUT ON THE MACRO SORT OF
LEVEL WHERE WE LOOK AT THE
WINNERS AND THE LOSERS,
OVERALL IT DOESN'T REALLY
MEAN THAT MUCH FOR THE U.S.
ECONOMY OR EVEN HERE IN
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, AS IT
MAY BE.
>> Stewart: CHRISTOPHER
THORNBERG, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR SHARING YOUR ANALYSIS.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Stewart: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL
IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND THE
NATION AND AROUND THE WORLD.
EACH YEAR, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF TROPICAL FISH ARE COLLECTED
IN THE WATERS OFF HAWAII AND
SHIPPED TO PET STORES AROUND THE
WORLD.
THEY ARE ULTIMATELY SOLD TO
AQUARIUM OWNERS.
BUT FOR SOME TIME NOW, THE
PRACTICE HAS COME UNDER FIRE BY
ENVIRONMENTALISTS IN THAT STATE
AND NEW PROPOSED LEGISLATION
COULD SPELL THE END OF THE
INDUSTRY.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MIKE TAIBBI TRAVELED TO HAWAII
AND REPORTS FROM THE BIG ISLAND.
>> Reporter: WHAT'S NOT TO LOVE?
SO BEAUTIFUL, COLORFUL,
MESMERIZING IN THEIR MOVEMENTS,
MINIATURE WORKS OF LIVING ART
THAT CAN THRIVE AND ENTERTAIN
FOR YEARS.
THEY'RE KOLES, LONGNOSE
BUTTERFLIES, AND A VARIETY OF
TANGS, IMMORTALIZED BY HOLLYWOOD
IN THE 2003 ANIMATED HIT FINDING
NEMO.
>> LOOK, SOMETHING SHINY!
>> WHERE?
>> Reporter: TODAY, THERE ARE
TENS OF MILLIONS OF TROPICAL
REEF FISH LIVING IN MORE THAN
TWO MILLION SALTWATER TANKS IN
HOMES AND RESTAURANTS AND
CORPORATE LOBBIES ACROSS THE
WORLD, THE MAJORITY IN THE U.S.,
AND, OF COURSE, IN BIG AQUARIUMS
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
BUT BEFORE ANY OF THESE FISH END
UP HERE, SOMEONE HAS TO GO OUT
AND CATCH THEM, AS THEY DO HERE
IN THE AQUARIUM FISHERY OFF OF
THE WEST COAST OF THE BIG ISLAND
OF HAWAI'I.
IT'S THE RICHEST SUCH FISHERY
ANYWHERE IN US WATERS.
66-YEAR-OLD TONY NAHACKY AND HIS
PARTNER LUCIANO PERINO ARE AMONG
THE MORE THAN FOUR DOZEN OR SO
COLLECTORS WHO HAVE STATE
PERMITS TO TAKE REEF FISH.
THEY HAVE BEEN AT IT FOR
DECADES.
AND THEY'RE NOT JUST COLLECTORS;
THEY SELECT, PREPARE AND SHIP
THE CATCH OF OTHER AQUARIUM
FISHERMEN AS WELL.
>> I LOVE AQUARIUMS.
I STILL HELP PEOPLE WITH THEIR
AQUARIUMS.
THEY LOVE THEIR AQUARIUMS JUST
THE WAY PEOPLE, LIKE, LOVE THEIR
DOGS, LOVE THEIR CATS, LOVE
OTHER PETS, YOU KNOW?
>> Reporter: THIS LOVE AFFAIR,
THOUGH, IS NOT ROOTED IN
HAWAIIAN HISTORY OR CULTURE, AND
IT'S HARDLY UNIVERSALLY CHEERED.
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVISTS LIKE
SCUBA INSTRUCTOR RENE UMBERGER
HAVE BEEN TRYING FOR YEARS TO
GET THE AQUARIUM FISHERY BANNED
OUTRIGHT.
>> OBVIOUSLY, IT'S DESTRUCTIVE.
>> Reporter: AND YOU WANT IT OUT
OF BUSINESS?
>> I WANT IT ALL GONE, NOT JUST
HAWAII.
>> Reporter: BUT IN HAWAII THE
DEBATE OVER AQUARIUM COLLECTING
HAS REACHED A FLASH POINT.
LAST MAY, UMBERGER WAS
DOCUMENTING FISH COLLECTING AND
POSSIBLE DAMAGE TO THE REEFS AS
PART OF A TEAM ORGANIZED BY THE
ECO-ACTIVIST GROUP SEA SHEPHERD
WHEN SHE SAYS SHE WAS SUDDENLY
RUSHED BY ONE OF THE COLLECTORS
50 FEET BELOW THE SURFACE.
WE REVIEWED THE VIDEO WITH HER.
>> THIS ONE SEES ME, AND STARTS
CHARGING, RIPS OUT MY AIR.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S YOUR
CAMERA?
>> THAT WAS MY CAMERA SO IT'S
ALL TOPSY TURVY BECAUSE I'M
DISORIENTED, TRYING TO FIND MY
AIR.
>> Reporter: THE VIDEO WAS
WIDELY SEEN IN T.V. NEWS
REPORTS, AND FOCUSED ATTENTION
ONCE MORE ON AN ISSUE THAT'S
BEEN CONTROVERSIAL IN HAWAII FOR
YEARS: THE IMPACT OF THE
AQUARIUM FISHERY ON HAWAII'S
LIVING REEFS, ON THE POPULAR
FISH SPECIES THAT CALL THOSE
REEFS HOME, AND ON HAWAII'S
BIGGEST INDUSTRY: TOURISM.
DR. BILL WALSH, A STATE MARINE
BIOLOGIST, IS A DEFENDER OF THE
WAY HAWAII HAS MANAGED THE
FISHERY.
>> THE NUMBER OF COLLECTORS HAS
INCREASED OVER THAT PERIOD OF
TIME.
THE NUMBER OF FISH BEING TAKEN
OUT AND THE NUMBER OF FISH
PRESENT ON THE REEF HAVE
INCREASED.
SO IT'S A REALLY POWERFUL
STATEMENT THAT THINGS ARE
WORKING.
>> Reporter: IT'S BEEN WORKING,
WALSH SAYS, SINCE 1999, WHEN IN
RESPONSE TO STUDIES SHOWING
SEVERAL SPECIES OF REEF FISH
WERE BEING SEVERELY DEPLETED,
HAWAII CLOSED AROUND A THIRD OF
THE KONA COAST TO COLLECTORS,
ESTABLISHING "FISH REPLENISHMENT
AREAS" WHILE THE REST OF THE
COAST REMAINED OPEN TO FISH
COLLECTION.
AND TWO YEARS AGO, IN THE OPEN
AREAS, ANOTHER KEY STEP: THE
STATE LIMITED THE NUMBER OF
ORNAMENTAL SPECIES THAT COULD BE
TAKEN FROM HUNDREDS TO JUST 40.
THE RESULTS?
DR. WALSH SAYS EXTENSIVE SURVEYS
SHOW FOR EXAMPLE THAT THE
NUMBERS OF YELLOW TANG, BY FAR
THE MOST POPULAR SPECIES TAKEN,
ARE WAY UP OVERALL IN THE PAST
15 YEARS.
OPPONENTS EMPHASIZE THAT IN THE
AREAS OPEN TO COLLECTING, THERE
ARE STILL MANY FEWER YELLOW
TANGS THAN IN THE CLOSED AREAS.
AT THIS POINT IN THIS LONG
RUNNING CONTROVERSY THERE ARE
STILL FEW FACTS THAT ARE NOT IN
DISPUTE.
BUT IT IS NOW LESS ABOUT THOSE
FACTS, DISPUTED OR OTHERWISE,
THAN IT IS ABOUT THE STUBBORNLY
OPPOSING ANSWERS TO A SINGLE
QUESTION: SHOULD THERE BE AN
AQUARIUM FISHERY AT ALL?
>> THIS IS WILDLIFE TRAFFICKING
FOR THE PET TRADE.
>> Reporter: BUT THAT'S A
DISTANCE LINGUISTICALLY THAT
YOU'RE SIDE HAS BEEN WILLING TO
GO.
>> YES.
>> Reporter: A "TRAFFICKER"--
THAT'S A WORD THAT'S LADEN WITH
MEANING-- HUMAN TRAFFICKERS,
DRUG TRAFFICKERS.
>> YES, THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Reporter: AND SHE'S NOT ALONE
IN HER OPPOSITION TO AQUARIUM
COLLECTING.
NATIVE HAWAIIANS LIKE WILLIE
KAUPIKO AND HIS SON KAIMI HAVE
LINED UP FIRMLY AGAINST THE REEF
COLLECTORS, SAYING FROM THEIR
FISHING VILLAGE OF MILOLII THAT
THAT KIND OF FISHING HAS NO
PLACE IN THEIR HISTORY OR
TRADITIONS.
>> YOU KNOW, WHATEVER YOU TAKE,
YOU'RE GONNA EAT.
>> Reporter: ONLY FISH FOR FOOD,
YOU'RE SAYING?
>> YES, YES, WE DON'T PLAY WITH
THE FISH.
THE OCEAN WAS OUR ICE BOX AS
WELL AS OUR GARDEN, AND WE NEED
TO PROTECT THE RESOURCES AND THE
OCEAN.
>> THEY BELONG ON THE REEF.
THAT'S WHERE THEY BELONG.
AND THEY ARE PART OF OUR FAMILY,
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
THEY ARE PART OF US.
>> Reporter: WHILE OPINIONS CAN
DIFFER ON THIS ISSUE, AS THEY DO
ABOUT SPORTFISHING AND HUNTING,
AND ABOUT COLLECTING OTHER KINDS
OF PETS, DR. WALSH SAYS THIS IS
A LEGITIMATE AND INCREASINGLY
IMPORTANT FISHERY, AND THAT HE'S
FRUSTRATED AT AN OPPOSITION HE
SAYS IS BASED ON MISINFORMATION.
>> WHY IS THE AQUARIUM FISHERY
SO EGREGIOUS COMPARED TO OTHER
THINGS THAT WE DO?
AND A LOT OF IT IS BECAUSE YOU
GET SOME PEOPLE JUST KINDA
WHIPPING UP THIS FRENZY OF
ENMITY TOWARDS THE FISHERY,
WITHOUT REALLY RELYING ON SOLID
INFORMATION.
>> Reporter: NOW THE DEBATE HAS
TAKEN ANOTHER NEW TURN THAT
COULD SPELL THE END OF THIS
FISHERY, COLLECTORS SAY.
>> EVIDENCE SHOWS DEATH WITHIN
THE SUPPLY CHAIN FROM REEF TO
RETAILER ARE LIKELY OVER 100,000
FISH BEFORE GETTING INTO A HOBBY
TANK.
>> Reporter: UMBERGER TESTIFIED
ON BEHALF OF A NEW LOCAL BILL
THAT WOULD REQUIRE FISH ARE
SHIPPED IN AT LEAST A GALLON OF
WATER AND WOULD PROHIBIT"
WITHHOLDING FOOD FROM AQUARIUM
LIFE FOR MORE THAN 24 HOURS."
AND NOW THE HAWAII STATE
LEGISLATURE IS CONSIDERING
SEVERAL OTHER BILLS THAT WOULD
BAN OR PLACE RESTRICTIONS ON HOW
THESE FISH ARE COLLECTED AND
SHIPPED.
TONY NAHACKY, AS BOTH A
FISHERMAN AND A SHIPPER WITH
NEARLY FIVE DECADES' EXPERIENCE,
SAYS HE WORRIES THE CHANGES
COULD BE ECONOMICALLY FATAL TO
FISHERMEN.
>> Reporter: YOU COULDN'T DO
BUSINESS THAT WAY?
>> WE COULDN'T DO BUSINESS IN
THE MANNER THAT WE DO.
>> Reporter: HE SHOWED US HOW
HIS SUPPLY CHAIN WORKS.
FIRST, THERE'S THE ACTUAL
COLLECTING ALONG THE REEF--
INDIVIDUAL FISH CHOSEN BY SIZE,
SPECIES, AND DESIRABILITY AND
TAKEN BY HAND USING NETS.
IN THE WAREHOUSE THEY'RE BAGGED
AND SEALED-- THIS THREE-INCH
FISH IN ABOUT A PINT OF
OXYGENATED WATER.
A GALLON, AS SOME LEGISLATION
WOULD REQUIRE, COULD INCREASE
SHIPPING COSTS EIGHT-FOLD,
NAHACKY ESTIMATES.
SOME FISH, LIKE THIS NASO TANG,
HAVE THEIR BLADDERS SQUEEZED SO
AS NOT TO FOUL THEIR SHIPPING
WATER WITH WASTE, A DANGER
NAHACKY ALSO SAYS WOULD BE
IMPOSED BY FEEDING REQUIREMENTS.
AFTER BEING COLLECTED,
ACCLIMATED, SELECTED AND PACKED
FOR SHIPMENT, THESE FISH ARE
HEADED TO PARIS AND TO WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT EUROPE.
FROM THE OCEAN TO THOSE
WHOLESALERS' TANKS: PERHAPS TEN
DAYS.
NAHACKY SAYS THAT OF THE 8,000
FISH HE SHIPPED JUST TO THE U.S.
MAINLAND LAST YEAR, THE LOSS
RATIO WAS UNDER ONE PERCENT.
HE CONCEDES THAT NOT ALL
COLLECTORS MAY FOLLOW THE RULES
AS CLOSELY AS HE DOES, BUT THAT
OVERALL THE HAWAII AQUARIUM
FISHERY IS A MODEL OF MANAGEMENT
AROUND THE WORLD.
UMBERGER, NOT SURPRISINGLY,
CHALLENGES NAHACKY'S FISH
MORTALITY FIGURES.
>> I WOULD NOT GIVE A LOT OF
WEIGHT TO ONE PERSON WHO GIVES
YOU THOSE NUMBERS.
>> Reporter: BUT IF NEW
RESTRICTIONS ARE PASSED AND
SURVIVE ANY LEGAL CHALLENGES,
TONY NAHACKY AND HIS FELLOW
COLLECTORS COULD BE DONE ON THE
BIG ISLAND.
A LOT OF THE ACTIVISTS,
ENVIRONMENTALISTS WOULD SAY, "WE
DON'T BELIEVE IT'S RIGHT TO
COLLECT FISH SO THAT RICH PEOPLE
CAN LOOK AT THEM IN TANKS."
THAT'S IT, THAT'S THE POSITION.
>> SO YOU CAN CHARACTERIZE AT
THAT... AS RICH PEOPLE HAVE
THESE AQUARIUMS.
BUT IT DOESN'T COVER THE AVERAGE
PERSON THAT BUYS THESE FISH AND
TOTALLY LOVES THEIR AQUARIUMS.
>> Reporter: FOR NOW, TONY AND
LUCIANO GO OUT IN THEIR LITTLE
SKIFF, AS THEY HAVE FOR SO MANY
YEARS, TO COLLECT DOZENS MORE OF
THESE COLORFUL FISH.
AND IF IT ENDS FOR THEM?
DEDICATED HOBBYISTS WILL LIKELY
FIND WHAT THEY SEEK, POSSIBLY
FROM OTHER COUNTRIES OR SOURCES.
MAYBE NOT FROM THESE MEN.
MAYBE NOT FROM HERE.
SHOULD PEOPLE-- IT'S BEEN
DEBATED FOR YEARS IN THE
U.S.
NOW BRITAIN'S CONSERVATIVE
GOVERNMENT IS PROPOSING TO
SLASH BENEFITS TO THOSE WITH
WHAT IF CALLS TREATABLE
CONDITIONS WITHOUT DON'T
SEEK HELP.
ITV FILED THIS REPORT.
>> A LONDON BOROUGH FACING A
BIG BATTLE WITH THE BULGE,
DAVID CAMERON HAS ADMITTED
HIS OWN STRUGGLE, ONCE
DESCRIBING HIMSELF AS JUST
ANOTHER MIDDLE-AGED SLIGHTLY
OVERWEIGHT JOGGER.
BUT TODAY THE CONSERVATIVE
PARTY SAID OBESE PEOPLE
COULD BE ORDERED TO LOSE
WEIGHT OR RISK LOSING THEIR
BENEFITS.
THOSE WITH DRUG AND ALCOHOL
PROBLEMS WOULD FACE THE SAME
FATE.
>> IT IS LISTED IN THE TOP
FEBRUARY AREAS IN THE U.K.
FOR OBESITY RELATED HOSPITAL
ADMISSIONS.
UNDER DAVID CAMERON'S
PROPOSAL THOSE REFUSING
TREATMENT COULD LOSE UP TO
AROUND $100 POUNDS A WEEK IN
BENEFITS.
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS THERE
ARE 100,000 PEOPLE WITH
TREATABLE, LONG-TERM ISSUES.
CAMPAIGNERS SAID PUNITIVE,
PICKING ON THE POOR, THE
CONSERVATIVE PITCH, A CHANCE
AT A BETTER LIFE.
>> THIS IS ABOUT GETTING
PEOPLE WHO HAVE GOT AN
ALCOHOL OR DRUG ADDICTION OR
ARE OBESE AND NOT ABLE TO
WORK AS A RESULT.
THIS IS ABOUT HAVING THEM
ENGAGE WITH THE TREATMENT
AND SUPPORT THAT'S AVAILABLE
SO THEY CAN GET BACK TO WORK,
EARN A LIVING AND SUPPORT
THEIR OWN FAMILIES.
IT IS A VERY SENSIBLE POLICY
AND IT'S ABOUT GETTING
PEOPLE BACK INTO WORK.
>> WOULD YOU SUPPORT DAVID
CAMERON'S PROPOSAL TO CUT
BENEFIT --
>> NO, NO.
>> YOU WOULDN'T, WHY?
>> I JUST THINK PEOPLE
STRUGGLE ENOUGH AS IT IS.
>> IT ALL DEPENDS ON THE
SITUATION OF THAT PERSON,
ISN'T IT?
YOU KNOW, THEY IF THEY ARE
USING IT, ABUSING IT, THEN
IF THEY NEED IT, THEN DON'T
TAKE IT.
>> Stewart: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
ISIS TODAY RELEASED VIDEO IT
SAYS SHOWS THE BEHEADING OF
21 EGYPTIAN CHRISTIANS IT
HAD BEEN HOLDING HOSTAGE.
EGYPT DECLARED A SEVEN DAY
MOURNING PERIOD.
HUNDREDS OF GRAVESTONES IN A
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL WERE
DESECRATED IN A JEWISH
CEMETERY IN EASTERN FRANCE
THE FRENCH PRESIDENT CALLED IT
AN ODIOUS AND BARBARIC ACT.
>> AND LOUIS JOURDAN HAS DIED.
HE WAS 93 YEARS OLD.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
I'M ALISON STEWART IN FOR
HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.